src/main/docs/guide/management/providedEndpoints.adoc, before:

When the `management` dependency is added to your project, the following built-in endpoints are enabled by default:

.Default Endpoints
|===
|Endpoint|URI|Description

|api:management.endpoint.beans.BeansEndpoint[]
| `/beans`
|Returns information about the loaded bean definitions in the application (see <<beansEndpoint, BeansEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.health.HealthEndpoint[]
| `/health`
|Returns information about the "health" of the application (see <<healthEndpoint, HealthEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.info.InfoEndpoint[]
| `/info`
|Returns static information from the state of the application (see <<infoEndpoint, InfoEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.loggers.LoggersEndpoint[]
| `/loggers`
|Returns information about available loggers and permits changing the configured log level (see <<loggersEndpoint, LoggersEndpoint>>)

|api:configuration.metrics.management.endpoint.MetricsEndpoint[]
| `/metrics`
|Return the <<metricsEndpoint,application metrics>>. Requires the `micrometer-core` configuration on the classpath.

|api:management.endpoint.refresh.RefreshEndpoint[]
| `/refresh`
|Refreshes the application state (see <<refreshEndpoint, RefreshEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.routes.RoutesEndpoint[]
| `/routes`
|Returns information about URIs available to be called for your application (see <<routesEndpoint, RoutesEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.env.EnvironmentEndpoint[]
| `/env`
|Returns information about the environment and its property sources (see <<environmentEndpoint, EnvironmentEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.threads.ThreadDumpEndpoint[]
| `/threaddump`
|Returns information about the current threads in the application.


|===

In addition, the following built-in endpoint(s) are provided by the `management` dependency but are not enabled by default:

.Disabled Endpoints
|===
|Endpoint|URI|Description

|api:management.endpoint.caches.CachesEndpoint[]
| `/caches`
|Returns information about the caches and permits invalidating them (see <<cachesEndpoint, CachesEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.stop.ServerStopEndpoint[]
| `/stop`
|Shuts down the application server (see <<stopEndpoint, ServerStopEndpoint>>)

|===


WARNING: It is possible to open all endpoints for unauthenticated access defining `endpoints.all.sensitive: false` but
this should be used with care because private and sensitive information will be exposed.


=== JMX

Micronaut provides functionality to register endpoints with JMX. See the section on <<jmx, JMX>> to get started.

Commit message:

Add support for customizing management port. Fixes #948

src/main/docs/guide/management/providedEndpoints.adoc, after:

When the `management` dependency is added to your project, the following built-in endpoints are enabled by default:

.Default Endpoints
|===
|Endpoint|URI|Description

|api:management.endpoint.beans.BeansEndpoint[]
| `/beans`
|Returns information about the loaded bean definitions in the application (see <<beansEndpoint, BeansEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.health.HealthEndpoint[]
| `/health`
|Returns information about the "health" of the application (see <<healthEndpoint, HealthEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.info.InfoEndpoint[]
| `/info`
|Returns static information from the state of the application (see <<infoEndpoint, InfoEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.loggers.LoggersEndpoint[]
| `/loggers`
|Returns information about available loggers and permits changing the configured log level (see <<loggersEndpoint, LoggersEndpoint>>)

|api:configuration.metrics.management.endpoint.MetricsEndpoint[]
| `/metrics`
|Return the <<metricsEndpoint,application metrics>>. Requires the `micrometer-core` configuration on the classpath.

|api:management.endpoint.refresh.RefreshEndpoint[]
| `/refresh`
|Refreshes the application state (see <<refreshEndpoint, RefreshEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.routes.RoutesEndpoint[]
| `/routes`
|Returns information about URIs available to be called for your application (see <<routesEndpoint, RoutesEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.env.EnvironmentEndpoint[]
| `/env`
|Returns information about the environment and its property sources (see <<environmentEndpoint, EnvironmentEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.threads.ThreadDumpEndpoint[]
| `/threaddump`
|Returns information about the current threads in the application.


|===

In addition, the following built-in endpoint(s) are provided by the `management` dependency but are not enabled by default:

.Disabled Endpoints
|===
|Endpoint|URI|Description

|api:management.endpoint.caches.CachesEndpoint[]
| `/caches`
|Returns information about the caches and permits invalidating them (see <<cachesEndpoint, CachesEndpoint>>)

|api:management.endpoint.stop.ServerStopEndpoint[]
| `/stop`
|Shuts down the application server (see <<stopEndpoint, ServerStopEndpoint>>)

|===


WARNING: It is possible to open all endpoints for unauthenticated access defining `endpoints.all.sensitive: false` but
this should be used with care because private and sensitive information will be exposed.

=== Management Port

By default all management endpoints are exposed over the same port as the application. You can alter this behaviour by specifying the `endpoints.all.port` setting:

[source,yaml]
----
endpoints:
    all:
        port: 8085
----

In the above example the management endpoints will be exposed only over port 8085.

=== JMX

Micronaut provides functionality to register endpoints with JMX. See the section on <<jmx, JMX>> to get started.
