src/main/docs/guide/cli/profiles.adoc, before:

Profiles are essentially project templates, consisting of a "skeleton" project structure with default configuration, build dependencies and other assets, along with a set of commands for generating appropriate artifacts (such as controllers, client interfaces, etc).

Profiles can inherit from other profiles, augmenting/overriding defaults set in their parent. All profiles inherit from the `base` profile, which provides the bare minimum required to set up a Micronaut application.

Many Micronaut apps (including projects generated by the `create-app` command) will use the `service` profile, which augments the `base` profile to add HTTP client/server libraries, `create-controller` and `create-client` commands, and other features that are appropriate for web service applications.

Other Micronaut apps (including projects generated by the `create-cli-app` command) may be interested in the `cli` profile, which adds the `create-command` command and the picocli library for command line parsing.

Profiles can be chosen using the `profile` flag on the `create-app`, `create-cli-app`, and `create-federation` commands.

[source,bash]
----
$ mn create-app my-project
----

//TODO: Include more details from https://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/profiles.html, add section on creating profiles

Commit message:

Improve profile documentation
Addresses https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-core/issues/2309

src/main/docs/guide/cli/profiles.adoc, after:

Profiles are project templates, consisting of a "skeleton" project structure with default configuration, build dependencies and other assets, along with a set of commands for generating application-appropriate artifacts (such as controllers, client interfaces, etc).

Profiles can inherit from other profiles, augmenting/overriding defaults set in their parent. All profiles inherit from the `base` profile, which provides the bare minimum required to set up a Micronaut application.

Many Micronaut apps will use the `service` profile, which augments the `base` profile to add HTTP client/server libraries, `create-controller` and `create-client` commands, and other features that are appropriate for web service applications. This is the default profile used when running the `create-app` command.

Other Micronaut apps will be better served by the `cli` profile, which adds the `create-command` command and the https://picocli.info/[picocli] library for parsing command line input. This is the default profile used when running the `create-cli-app` command.

You can view allof the built-in profiles using the CLI command `list-profiles`:

[source,bash]
----
$ mn list-profiles
| Available Profiles
--------------------
  cli                 The cli profile
  configuration       The profile for creating the configuration
  federation          The federation profile
  function-aws        The function profile for AWS Lambda
  function-aws-alexa  The function profile for AWS Alexa-Lambda
  grpc                Profile for Creating GRPC Services
  kafka               The Kafka messaging profile
  profile             A profile for creating new Micronaut profiles
  rabbitmq            The RabbitMQ messaging profile
  service             The service profile
----

Profiles can be chosen using the `profile` flag on the `create-app`, `create-cli-app`, and `create-federation` commands.

[source,bash]
----
$ mn create-app my-project --profile rabbitmq
----

//TODO: Include more details from https://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/profiles.html, add section on creating profiles
