src/main/docs/guide/introduction/upgrading.adoc, before:

This section covers the steps required to upgrade a Micronaut 1.x application to Micronaut 2.x.

=== Thread Pool Selection Now Manual

If your application does blocking I/O such as communication via JDBC or JPA you should annotate all controllers that interact with these blocking resources with the ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation specifying either the default I/O thread pool or a thread pool that you configure an manage to deal with these blocking interactions. For example:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.http.server.executeon.PersonController[tags="imports,class", indent=0,title="Using @ExecuteOn"]

<1> The ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation is used to execute the operation on the I/O thread pool

NOTE: If you wish to return to the previous behaviour as defined in Micronaut 1.x you can set `micronaut.server.thread-selection` to `AUTO` in configuration.

=== Compilation Error with classes in `io.micronaut.cache` package

If your application fails to compile due to missing classes in the `io.micronaut.cache` you need to add a dependency on a cache implementation, for example the default cache implementation was Caffeine and this can be restored with the following dependency:

dependency:io.micronaut.cache:micronaut-cache-caffeine[]

=== Compilation Error with classes in `javax.annotation` package

If you application fails to compile referencing classes in the `javax.annotation` package such as `@Nullable` and `@Nonnull` you should update your project to instead import `edu.umd.cs.findbugs.annotations` from Spot Bugs.

=== New Group IDs

Some dependencies have new Maven Group IDs so you may need to update your dependency. The following table summarizes changes to group IDs:

.Updated Maven Group IDs
|===
|Previous ID|New ID

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-kafka`
|`io.micronaut.kafka:micronaut-kafka`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-liquibase`
|`io.micronaut.liquibase:micronaut-liquibase`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-flyway`
|`io.micronaut.flyway:micronaut-flyway`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-views-*`
|`io.micronaut.views:micronaut-views-*`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-redis`
|`io.micronaut.redis:micronaut-redis`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-mongo`
|`io.micronaut.mongodb:micronaut-mongo-reactive`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-cassandra`
|`io.micronaut.cassandra:micronaut-cassandra`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-hibernate-validator`
|`io.micronaut.beanvalidation:micronaut-hibernate-validator`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-micrometer-*`
|`io.micronaut.micrometer:micronaut-micrometer-*`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-aws-*`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-*`

|`io.micronaut:micronaut-security-*`
|`io.micronaut.security:micronaut-security-*`

|===

=== AWS Module Changes

The AWS functionality (including support for AWS ParameterStore, AWS Route53 and AWS Lambda Function Client) has been moved out of the Micronaut core therefore if you need AWS related functionality you should use the necessary module.

.Updated AWS Modules
|===
|Package|New Dependency

|`io.micronaut.function.client.aws`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-function-client-aws`

|`io.micronaut.discovery.aws.parameterstore`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-parameter-store`

|`io.micronaut.discovery.aws.route53`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-route53`

|===

=== Other Breaking Changes

If the above cases don't cover your use case see the section on <<breaks, Breaking Changes>> for a list of other changes that are regarded as breaking in this release.

Commit message:

Explain the old Kubernetes discovery service deprecation (#3452)
* Explain the old Kubernetes discovery service deprecation

Fixes #3281

* Update upgrading.adoc

src/main/docs/guide/introduction/upgrading.adoc, after:

This section covers the steps required to upgrade a Micronaut 1.x application to Micronaut 2.x.

=== Thread Pool Selection Now Manual

If your application does blocking I/O such as communication via JDBC or JPA you should annotate all controllers that interact with these blocking resources with the ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation specifying either the default I/O thread pool or a thread pool that you configure an manage to deal with these blocking interactions. For example:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.http.server.executeon.PersonController[tags="imports,class", indent=0,title="Using @ExecuteOn"]

<1> The ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation is used to execute the operation on the I/O thread pool

NOTE: If you wish to return to the previous behaviour as defined in Micronaut 1.x you can set `micronaut.server.thread-selection` to `AUTO` in configuration.

=== Compilation Error with classes in `io.micronaut.cache` package

If your application fails to compile due to missing classes in the `io.micronaut.cache` you need to add a dependency on a cache implementation, for example the default cache implementation was Caffeine and this can be restored with the following dependency:

dependency:io.micronaut.cache:micronaut-cache-caffeine[]

=== Compilation Error with classes in `javax.annotation` package

If you application fails to compile referencing classes in the `javax.annotation` package such as `@Nullable` and `@Nonnull` you should update your project to instead import `edu.umd.cs.findbugs.annotations` from Spot Bugs.

=== New Group IDs

Some dependencies have new Maven Group IDs so you may need to update your dependency. The following table summarizes changes to group IDs:

.Updated Maven Group IDs
|===
|Previous ID|New ID

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-kafka`
|`io.micronaut.kafka:micronaut-kafka`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-liquibase`
|`io.micronaut.liquibase:micronaut-liquibase`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-flyway`
|`io.micronaut.flyway:micronaut-flyway`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-views-*`
|`io.micronaut.views:micronaut-views-*`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-redis`
|`io.micronaut.redis:micronaut-redis`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-mongo`
|`io.micronaut.mongodb:micronaut-mongo-reactive`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-cassandra`
|`io.micronaut.cassandra:micronaut-cassandra`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-hibernate-validator`
|`io.micronaut.beanvalidation:micronaut-hibernate-validator`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-micrometer-*`
|`io.micronaut.micrometer:micronaut-micrometer-*`

|`io.micronaut.configuration:micronaut-aws-*`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-*`

|`io.micronaut:micronaut-security-*`
|`io.micronaut.security:micronaut-security-*`

|===

=== AWS Module Changes

The AWS functionality (including support for AWS ParameterStore, AWS Route53 and AWS Lambda Function Client) has been moved out of the Micronaut core therefore if you need AWS related functionality you should use the necessary module.

.Updated AWS Modules
|===
|Package|New Dependency

|`io.micronaut.function.client.aws`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-function-client-aws`

|`io.micronaut.discovery.aws.parameterstore`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-parameter-store`

|`io.micronaut.discovery.aws.route53`
|`io.micronaut.aws:micronaut-aws-route53`

|===

=== Kubernetes Discovery Service deprecation

The class `io.micronaut.discovery.kubernetes.KubernetesDiscoveryClient`, that was deprecated in Micronaut 1.2, has now been removed from Micronaut 2.0. The replacement is the new https://micronaut-projects.github.io/micronaut-kubernetes/latest/guide/[Micronaut Kubernetes] module, with an improved support for running Micronaut applications in a Kubernetes cluster, including support for Kubernetes' ``ConfigMap``s, ``Secret``s and more.

To use the new module, you need to add the following dependency:

dependency:io.micronaut.kubernetes:micronaut-kubernetes-discovery-client[]

=== Other Breaking Changes

If the above cases don't cover your use case see the section on <<breaks, Breaking Changes>> for a list of other changes that are regarded as breaking in this release.
