src/main/docs/guide/introduction/whatsNew.adoc, before:

Micronaut {version} includes the following changes:

=== Core Features

==== Kotlin 1.4

Micronaut now ships with Kotlin 1.4 for those users using Kotlin.

==== Introspections for JDK 14 Records

It is now possible to define <<introspection, bean introspections>> on JDK 14+ record types (note these currently require the `––enable–preview` flag to the compiler and JVM).

==== Client Binding API

A new API has been created to allow for binding declarative HTTP client method arguments to an HTTP request. See the <<clientParameters, documentation>> for more information.

==== Websocket Improvements

Query parameters are now respected and bindable in the Micronaut websocket support.

==== HttpResponse Improvements

Cookies in HTTP responses from the client side are now retrievable on the HttpResponse. These are the cookies found in the `Set-Cookie` header.

==== Default Environment

Micronaut 2.1 introduces the concept of a default environment. One or more default environments can be set and they will apply if no other environments are explicitly specified. See the <<environments, environments documentation>> for information on how to use this new feature.

==== Liveness/Readiness Health Endpoint Resources

A new health endpoint resources `/health/liveness` and `/health/readiness` to distinguish health indicators purpose.

=== Module Upgrades

TODO

=== Dependency Upgrades

TODO

Commit message:

@Order annotation support (#4148)
* Introduce a @Order annotation

This introductions an @Order annotation, similar to Springs, as an alternative to the Ordered
interface.

Adds a new Order annotation and updates DefaultBeanContext to order
beans based on annotation as well as Ordered interface.

See issue 431

* fix checkstyle errors

* apply changes based on PR review

* Only look for the order annotation value if the bean does not implement ordered and at least one registration has the annotation

* Add docs. Move some logic around

* Fix license header

Co-authored-by: seancarroll <seanc28@gmail.com>

src/main/docs/guide/introduction/whatsNew.adoc, after:

Micronaut {version} includes the following changes:

=== Core Features

==== Kotlin 1.4

Micronaut now ships with Kotlin 1.4 for those users using Kotlin.

==== Introspections for JDK 14 Records

It is now possible to define <<introspection, bean introspections>> on JDK 14+ record types (note these currently require the `––enable–preview` flag to the compiler and JVM).

==== Client Binding API

A new API has been created to allow for binding declarative HTTP client method arguments to an HTTP request. See the <<clientParameters, documentation>> for more information.

==== Websocket Improvements

Query parameters are now respected and bindable in the Micronaut websocket support.

==== HttpResponse Improvements

Cookies in HTTP responses from the client side are now retrievable on the HttpResponse. These are the cookies found in the `Set-Cookie` header.

==== Default Environment

Micronaut 2.1 introduces the concept of a default environment. One or more default environments can be set and they will apply if no other environments are explicitly specified. See the <<environments, environments documentation>> for information on how to use this new feature.

==== Liveness/Readiness Health Endpoint Resources

A new health endpoint resources `/health/liveness` and `/health/readiness` to distinguish health indicators purpose.

==== @Order Annotation

The ann:core.annotation.Order[] annotation has been added to support supplying bean order for factory methods or for those who prefer the use of annotations over the api:core.order.Ordered[] interface.

=== Module Upgrades

TODO

=== Dependency Upgrades

TODO
