src/main/docs/guide/httpServer/serverConfiguration/threadPools.adoc, before:

The HTTP server is built on http://netty.io[Netty] which is designed as a non-blocking I/O toolkit in an event loop model.

The Netty worker event loop uses the "default" named event loop group. That event loop can be configured through `micronaut.server.netty.worker`, or `micronaut.netty.event-loops.default`, with the latter having precedence.

include::{includedir}configurationProperties/io.micronaut.http.server.netty.configuration.NettyHttpServerConfiguration$Worker.adoc[]

TIP: The parent event loop can be configured with `micronaut.server.netty.parent` with the same configuration options.

The server can also be configured to use a different named worker event loop:

.Using a different event loop for the server
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    server:
        netty:
            worker:
                event-loop-group: other
    netty:
        event-loops:
            other:
                num-threads: 10
----

NOTE: The default value for the number of threads is the value of the system property `io.netty.eventLoopThreads`, or if not specified, the available processors x 2.

See the following table for configuring event loops:

include::{includedir}configurationProperties/io.micronaut.http.netty.channel.DefaultEventLoopGroupConfiguration.adoc[]

==== Blocking Operations

When dealing with blocking operations, Micronaut will shift the blocking operations to an unbound, caching I/O thread pool by default. You can configure the I/O thread pool using the api:scheduling.executor.ExecutorConfiguration[] named `io`. For example:

.Configuring the Server I/O Thread Pool
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    executors:
        io:
           type: fixed
           nThreads: 75
----

The above configuration will create a fixed thread pool with 75 threads.

Commit message:

Issue 3582 configure Netty shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeout (#4319)
* Issue 3582 - adding feature to configure the shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeout for Netty event loop groups and http server

* Issue 3582 - adding feature to configure the shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeout for Netty event loop groups and http server

* Issue 3582
- adding feature to configure the shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeouts
- adding overloaded versions of HttpClient create; RxStreamingHttpClient create; and RxHttpClientFactory createClient and createStreamingClient to accept a HttpClientConfiguration instance, for cases where the client is created outside the Micronaut application context

* Issue 3582
- adding feature to configure the shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeouts
- adding overloaded versions of HttpClient create; RxStreamingHttpClient create; and RxHttpClientFactory createClient and createStreamingClient to accept a HttpClientConfiguration instance, for cases where the client is created outside the Micronaut application context

* Issue 3582
- revise section 6.27.1 of the documentaion to add clarification about Netty server configuration
- add deprecation warning in NettyHttpServer about preferring Netty event loop groups configurations

* Update threadPools.adoc

* Issue 3582
- adding feature to configure the shutdown quiet period and shutdown timeouts
- adding overloaded versions of HttpClient create; RxStreamingHttpClient create; and RxHttpClientFactory createClient and createStreamingClient to accept a HttpClientConfiguration instance, for cases where the client is created outside the Micronaut application context

Co-authored-by: James Kleeh <james.kleeh@gmail.com>

src/main/docs/guide/httpServer/serverConfiguration/threadPools.adoc, after:

The HTTP server is built on http://netty.io[Netty] which is designed as a non-blocking I/O toolkit in an event loop model.

The Netty worker event loop uses the "default" named event loop group. That event loop can be configured through `micronaut.netty.event-loops.default`.

IMPORTANT: The event loop configuration under `micronaut.server.netty.worker` will only be used if the `event-loop-group` is set to a name and that name doesn't correspond to any `micronaut.netty.event-loops` configuration. This behavior is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Use `micronaut.netty.event-loops.*` for any event loop group configuration beyond setting the name through `event-loop-group`. This does not apply to the parent event loop configuration (`micronaut.server.netty.parent`).

include::{includedir}configurationProperties/io.micronaut.http.server.netty.configuration.NettyHttpServerConfiguration$Worker.adoc[]

TIP: The parent event loop can be configured with `micronaut.server.netty.parent` with the same configuration options.

The server can also be configured to use a different named worker event loop:

.Using a different event loop for the server
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    server:
        netty:
            worker:
                event-loop-group: other
    netty:
        event-loops:
            other:
                num-threads: 10
----

NOTE: The default value for the number of threads is the value of the system property `io.netty.eventLoopThreads`, or if not specified, the available processors x 2.

See the following table for configuring event loops:

include::{includedir}configurationProperties/io.micronaut.http.netty.channel.DefaultEventLoopGroupConfiguration.adoc[]

==== Blocking Operations

When dealing with blocking operations, Micronaut will shift the blocking operations to an unbound, caching I/O thread pool by default. You can configure the I/O thread pool using the api:scheduling.executor.ExecutorConfiguration[] named `io`. For example:

.Configuring the Server I/O Thread Pool
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    executors:
        io:
           type: fixed
           nThreads: 75
----

The above configuration will create a fixed thread pool with 75 threads.
