src/main/docs/guide/appendix/breaks.adoc, before:

This section will document breaking changes between Micronaut 1.0 and Micronaut 2.0

=== Thread Pool Selection Now Manual

In Micronaut 1.x, Micronaut would attempt to automatically deduce the thread pool to use based on the return type of the controller method.

This approach caused some confusion and created a false association between reactive types and blocking operations.

Micronaut 2.x now leaves it up to the user to specify the thread pool to schedule operations on, including blocking operations.

If you are upgrading from Micronaut 1.x and have a controller that executes blocking I/O operations (such as JDBC or JPA) it is recommended that you add the ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation to execute the blocking operations on a different thread.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.http.server.executeon.PersonController[tags="imports,class", indent=0,title="Using @ExecuteOn"]

<1> The ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation is used to execute the operation on the I/O thread pool

NOTE: If you wish to return to the previous behaviour as defined in Micronaut 1.x you can set `micronaut.server.thread-selection` to `AUTO` in configuration.

=== Support for RxJava 1.x Removed from Core

RxJava 1.x support is no longer included in core by default. You can re-enable suppot by adding the following dependency:

dependency:io.micronaut.rxjava1:micronaut-rxjava1[scope="compile", version="1.0.0"]

=== Server Side Content Negotiation May Require Test Changes

The new support for server side content negotiation may require changes to tests. For example a test that that makes a call such as:

[source,java]
----
String result = client.toBlocking().retrieve(
    HttpRequest.GET('/test')
        .accept("text/plain"), String
)
----

If the server implementation does not declare the route as `@Produces("text/plain")` the request will be rejected with a `NOT_ACCEPTABLE` HTTP status code.

=== Server Filter Ordering

In Micronaut 1.x almost all built in filters operated on order 0, meaning the order was non deterministic. That caused some compatibility issues with the metrics and security modules. A new class has been added api:http.filter.ServerFilterPhase[] that defines the phases of server filtering and sets an order. Many filters have been updated to now have their order reflect the phase they participate in.

=== Heartbeat Events No Longer Published if no Discovery Clients present

A api:health.HeartbeatEvent[] is no longer published automatically if there are no api:discovery.DiscoveryClient[] instances present.

This behaviour can be changed by setting `micronaut.heartbeat.enabled` to `true` explicitly in configuration.

=== Several TypeConverters Are No Longer Beans

Many `TypeConverter` instances that were previously beans are no longer beans and are deprecated including:

* api:http.MediaTypeConverter[]
* api:convext.converters.StringToClassConverter[]
* api:convext.converters.StringArrayToClassArrayConverter[]
* api:http.client.converters.SocketAddressConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.PublisherToMonoConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.PublisherToFluxConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.ObjectToFluxConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.ObjectToMonoConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.JsonNodeToObjectConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.MapToObjectConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ObjectToJsonNodeConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ArrayNodeToArrayConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ArrayNodeToIterableConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ObjectNodeToConvertibleValuesConverter[]
* api:runtime.http.converters.HttpStatusConverter[]

These should not be injected directly but instead used through the api:core.convert.ConversionService[] API.

=== @Executable No Longer Stereotype of @Around

In Micronaut 1.x the ann:context.annotation.Executable[] annotation was a meta-annotation specified on the ann:aop.Around[] and ann:aop.Introduction[] annotations. This meant that an api:inject.ExecutableMethod[] reference was generated for every usage of AOP advice which consumed additional memory unnecessarily.

In Micronaut 2.x and above this is no longer the case and if you need an api:inject.ExecutableMethod[] generated you should add the ann:context.annotation.Executable[] annotation to any custom AOP advice you specify otherwise the method will not be available via the api:inject.BeanDefinition[] interface (using for example the api:BeanDefinition.getExecutableMethods[] method).

=== Spot Bugs Instead of JSR-305 Nullable/NonNull Annotations

The JSR-305 annotations library (`com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305`) is no longer a dependency (replaced by `spotbugs-annotations`). If you need this library you will need to add it manually.

=== Events Renamed

The following events were renamed to avoid confusion with other events of similar names:

|===
| Old Name|New Name

| `io.micronaut.discovery.event.ServiceStartedEvent`
| api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]

| `io.micronaut.discovery.event.ServiceShutdownEvent`
| api:discovery.event.ServiceStoppedEvent[]
|===

=== New Package for Netty Specific Classes of HTTP Client

The HTTP client implementation classes including api:http.client.netty.DefaultHttpClient[] (considered internal in Micronaut 1.x) have been moved to a sub-package called `io.micronaut.http.client.netty`.

=== HTTP Clients No Longer Named Beans

HTTP clients declared with `micronaut.http.services` (see <<serviceDiscoveryManual,Manual Service Discovery Configuration>>) are no longer named beans in the context and cannot be injected with `javax.inject.Named`, for example given the configuration:

.Manually configuring services
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    http:
        services:
            foo:
                urls:
                    - http://foo1
                    - http://foo2

----

You can lon longer inject an HTTP client with `@Named("foo")`:

[source,java]
----
@Inject
@Named("foo")
RxHttpClient httpClient;
----

Instead you should always use ann:http.client.annotation.Client[]:

[source,java]
----
@Inject
@Client("foo")
RxHttpClient httpClient;
----

=== Source Retention Annotations No Longer Retained in Runtime Metadata

In Micronaut 1.x annotations specified as source retention were still retained in the api:core.annotation.AnnotationMetadata[] interface. As of Micronaut 2.x this is no longer the case with source retention annotations only available within the compiler APIs.

If you wish to retain a particular source level annotation when upgrading you can write an api:inject.annotation.AnnotationTransformer[] that alters the `RetentionPolicy` of the annotation.

=== Iterable Beans No Longer Have An Implicit Primary

In Micronaut 1.x injecting a single instance of an iterable bean without qualifiers would inject the first bean. An iterable bean is typically anything annotated with `@EachProperty` or `@EachBean`. Those beans typically are referenced from configuration. The first bean in this context is the first item in configuration that matches what the annotation expects.

For example if you created a bean with `@EachProperty("cars")`, then specified the following in your config:

[source,yaml]
----
cars:
    ford:
        cylinders: 8
    subaru:
        cylinders: 4
----

Requesting a single instance of that bean would result in the "ford" instance being injected. Because that behavior is surprising and inconsistent with other types of beans, that is no longer the case and a `NonUniqueBeanException` will be thrown.

NOTE: This change does not apply to an explicit primary defined in the annotation (`@EachProperty(value = "cars", primary = "ford")`), nor requesting the instance by a qualifier (`@Named("ford") CarConfig carConfig`).

=== Invalid Configuration File Locations

Specifying a file with `micronaut.config.files`, either through the system property or environment variable, that does not exist or cannot be read will now result in the application failing to startup. In previous versions of Micronaut a warning would be logged and the file would be ignored.

=== PropertySourceLoader Changes

Some default interface methods are no longer default and require implementation.

=== Deprecation Removal

Most if not all deprecated classes and methods have been removed.

=== Map Property Binding

In Micronaut 1.x `java.util.Map` properties being bound from config were inconsistently bound as either a nested or flat. Now maps are bound as nested by default and the ann:core.convert.format.MapFormat[] annotation's default value for `transformation` has been changed to reflect that.

For example given the config:

[source,yaml]
----
persons:
  joe:
    age: 30
  sally:
    age: 25
----

A map property injected via `@Property(name ="persons")` may have been injected flat or nested depending on a couple factors.

[source,json]
.Flat
----
{"joe.age": 30, "sally.age": 25}
----

[source,json]
.Nested
----
{"joe": {"age": 30}, "sally": {"age": 25}}
----

To bind to a map with flat keys, add the ann:core.convert.format.MapFormat[] annotation and set the `transformation` member.

=== GraalVM BOM Entry

The no longer used group for Graal is no longer part of the bom. While upgrading if you depend on Graal you may see `Could not find com.oracle.substratevm:svm:.`. To resolve the issue, change the dependency group to `org.graalvm.nativeimage`.

=== Cookie Configuration

The `getCookieMaxAge` method has been changed to return a `java.time.Duration`.

=== `@Retryable` and `@CircuitBreaker` Exception Handling

`@Retryable` and `@CircuitBreaker` in previous versions of Micronaut resolved `includes` and `excludes` explicitly. Any exception thrown had to exactly match one of the exceptions specified. This has been changed to now also include subclasses of the exception types specified.

=== MessageSource API Changes

The semantics of the `getMessage` method have been changed to also interpolate the message with any provided variables. In previous versions of Micronaut, the raw message was returned from the bundle. To support reading the raw message, a new method `getRawMessage` has been added.

In addition, escaping of messages with single quotes is now implemented in accordance with the standard Java link:{javase}java/text/MessageFormat.html[MessageFormat] class. Messages that contain a single quote will now need escaping in order for the quote to output as it did previously. For example:

[source,properties]
----
my.message=We love Micronaut's documentation
----

Would now be output as `We love Micronauts documentation`. To achieve the desired result, escape the single quote with another single quote.

[source,properties]
----
my.message=We love Micronaut''s documentation
----

NOTE: This change also applies to messages in custom constraint annotations, which interpolate the message via the message source api.

Commit message:

Split out cache from core

src/main/docs/guide/appendix/breaks.adoc, after:

This section will document breaking changes between Micronaut 1.0 and Micronaut 2.0

=== Thread Pool Selection Now Manual

In Micronaut 1.x, Micronaut would attempt to automatically deduce the thread pool to use based on the return type of the controller method.

This approach caused some confusion and created a false association between reactive types and blocking operations.

Micronaut 2.x now leaves it up to the user to specify the thread pool to schedule operations on, including blocking operations.

If you are upgrading from Micronaut 1.x and have a controller that executes blocking I/O operations (such as JDBC or JPA) it is recommended that you add the ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation to execute the blocking operations on a different thread.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.http.server.executeon.PersonController[tags="imports,class", indent=0,title="Using @ExecuteOn"]

<1> The ann:scheduling.annotation.ExecuteOn[] annotation is used to execute the operation on the I/O thread pool

NOTE: If you wish to return to the previous behaviour as defined in Micronaut 1.x you can set `micronaut.server.thread-selection` to `AUTO` in configuration.

=== Micronaut Cache Moved Out Of Runtime

The `micronaut-runtime` module in Micronaut 1.x included support for caching AOP with the `@Cache` annotation. The core caching library and a default implementation based on caffeine were included. If you are using the caffeine backed cache support, you must add a dependency to continue doing so. Add `io.micronaut:micronaut-cache-caffeine` to your build to maintain the existing functionality.

=== Support for RxJava 1.x Removed from Core

RxJava 1.x support is no longer included in core by default. You can re-enable suppot by adding the following dependency:

dependency:io.micronaut.rxjava1:micronaut-rxjava1[scope="compile", version="1.0.0"]

=== Server Side Content Negotiation May Require Test Changes

The new support for server side content negotiation may require changes to tests. For example a test that that makes a call such as:

[source,java]
----
String result = client.toBlocking().retrieve(
    HttpRequest.GET('/test')
        .accept("text/plain"), String
)
----

If the server implementation does not declare the route as `@Produces("text/plain")` the request will be rejected with a `NOT_ACCEPTABLE` HTTP status code.

=== Server Filter Ordering

In Micronaut 1.x almost all built in filters operated on order 0, meaning the order was non deterministic. That caused some compatibility issues with the metrics and security modules. A new class has been added api:http.filter.ServerFilterPhase[] that defines the phases of server filtering and sets an order. Many filters have been updated to now have their order reflect the phase they participate in.

=== Heartbeat Events No Longer Published if no Discovery Clients present

A api:health.HeartbeatEvent[] is no longer published automatically if there are no api:discovery.DiscoveryClient[] instances present.

This behaviour can be changed by setting `micronaut.heartbeat.enabled` to `true` explicitly in configuration.

=== Several TypeConverters Are No Longer Beans

Many `TypeConverter` instances that were previously beans are no longer beans and are deprecated including:

* api:http.MediaTypeConverter[]
* api:convext.converters.StringToClassConverter[]
* api:convext.converters.StringArrayToClassArrayConverter[]
* api:http.client.converters.SocketAddressConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.PublisherToMonoConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.PublisherToFluxConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.ObjectToFluxConverter[]
* api:reactive.reactor.converters.ObjectToMonoConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.JsonNodeToObjectConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.MapToObjectConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ObjectToJsonNodeConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ArrayNodeToArrayConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ArrayNodeToIterableConverter[]
* api:jackson.convert.ObjectNodeToConvertibleValuesConverter[]
* api:runtime.http.converters.HttpStatusConverter[]

These should not be injected directly but instead used through the api:core.convert.ConversionService[] API.

=== @Executable No Longer Stereotype of @Around

In Micronaut 1.x the ann:context.annotation.Executable[] annotation was a meta-annotation specified on the ann:aop.Around[] and ann:aop.Introduction[] annotations. This meant that an api:inject.ExecutableMethod[] reference was generated for every usage of AOP advice which consumed additional memory unnecessarily.

In Micronaut 2.x and above this is no longer the case and if you need an api:inject.ExecutableMethod[] generated you should add the ann:context.annotation.Executable[] annotation to any custom AOP advice you specify otherwise the method will not be available via the api:inject.BeanDefinition[] interface (using for example the api:BeanDefinition.getExecutableMethods[] method).

=== Spot Bugs Instead of JSR-305 Nullable/NonNull Annotations

The JSR-305 annotations library (`com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305`) is no longer a dependency (replaced by `spotbugs-annotations`). If you need this library you will need to add it manually.

=== Events Renamed

The following events were renamed to avoid confusion with other events of similar names:

|===
| Old Name|New Name

| `io.micronaut.discovery.event.ServiceStartedEvent`
| api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]

| `io.micronaut.discovery.event.ServiceShutdownEvent`
| api:discovery.event.ServiceStoppedEvent[]
|===

=== New Package for Netty Specific Classes of HTTP Client

The HTTP client implementation classes including api:http.client.netty.DefaultHttpClient[] (considered internal in Micronaut 1.x) have been moved to a sub-package called `io.micronaut.http.client.netty`.

=== HTTP Clients No Longer Named Beans

HTTP clients declared with `micronaut.http.services` (see <<serviceDiscoveryManual,Manual Service Discovery Configuration>>) are no longer named beans in the context and cannot be injected with `javax.inject.Named`, for example given the configuration:

.Manually configuring services
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    http:
        services:
            foo:
                urls:
                    - http://foo1
                    - http://foo2

----

You can lon longer inject an HTTP client with `@Named("foo")`:

[source,java]
----
@Inject
@Named("foo")
RxHttpClient httpClient;
----

Instead you should always use ann:http.client.annotation.Client[]:

[source,java]
----
@Inject
@Client("foo")
RxHttpClient httpClient;
----

=== Source Retention Annotations No Longer Retained in Runtime Metadata

In Micronaut 1.x annotations specified as source retention were still retained in the api:core.annotation.AnnotationMetadata[] interface. As of Micronaut 2.x this is no longer the case with source retention annotations only available within the compiler APIs.

If you wish to retain a particular source level annotation when upgrading you can write an api:inject.annotation.AnnotationTransformer[] that alters the `RetentionPolicy` of the annotation.

=== Iterable Beans No Longer Have An Implicit Primary

In Micronaut 1.x injecting a single instance of an iterable bean without qualifiers would inject the first bean. An iterable bean is typically anything annotated with `@EachProperty` or `@EachBean`. Those beans typically are referenced from configuration. The first bean in this context is the first item in configuration that matches what the annotation expects.

For example if you created a bean with `@EachProperty("cars")`, then specified the following in your config:

[source,yaml]
----
cars:
    ford:
        cylinders: 8
    subaru:
        cylinders: 4
----

Requesting a single instance of that bean would result in the "ford" instance being injected. Because that behavior is surprising and inconsistent with other types of beans, that is no longer the case and a `NonUniqueBeanException` will be thrown.

NOTE: This change does not apply to an explicit primary defined in the annotation (`@EachProperty(value = "cars", primary = "ford")`), nor requesting the instance by a qualifier (`@Named("ford") CarConfig carConfig`).

=== Invalid Configuration File Locations

Specifying a file with `micronaut.config.files`, either through the system property or environment variable, that does not exist or cannot be read will now result in the application failing to startup. In previous versions of Micronaut a warning would be logged and the file would be ignored.

=== PropertySourceLoader Changes

Some default interface methods are no longer default and require implementation.

=== Deprecation Removal

Most if not all deprecated classes and methods have been removed.

=== Map Property Binding

In Micronaut 1.x `java.util.Map` properties being bound from config were inconsistently bound as either a nested or flat. Now maps are bound as nested by default and the ann:core.convert.format.MapFormat[] annotation's default value for `transformation` has been changed to reflect that.

For example given the config:

[source,yaml]
----
persons:
  joe:
    age: 30
  sally:
    age: 25
----

A map property injected via `@Property(name ="persons")` may have been injected flat or nested depending on a couple factors.

[source,json]
.Flat
----
{"joe.age": 30, "sally.age": 25}
----

[source,json]
.Nested
----
{"joe": {"age": 30}, "sally": {"age": 25}}
----

To bind to a map with flat keys, add the ann:core.convert.format.MapFormat[] annotation and set the `transformation` member.

=== GraalVM BOM Entry

The no longer used group for Graal is no longer part of the bom. While upgrading if you depend on Graal you may see `Could not find com.oracle.substratevm:svm:.`. To resolve the issue, change the dependency group to `org.graalvm.nativeimage`.

=== Cookie Configuration

The `getCookieMaxAge` method has been changed to return a `java.time.Duration`.

=== `@Retryable` and `@CircuitBreaker` Exception Handling

`@Retryable` and `@CircuitBreaker` in previous versions of Micronaut resolved `includes` and `excludes` explicitly. Any exception thrown had to exactly match one of the exceptions specified. This has been changed to now also include subclasses of the exception types specified.

=== MessageSource API Changes

The semantics of the `getMessage` method have been changed to also interpolate the message with any provided variables. In previous versions of Micronaut, the raw message was returned from the bundle. To support reading the raw message, a new method `getRawMessage` has been added.

In addition, escaping of messages with single quotes is now implemented in accordance with the standard Java link:{javase}java/text/MessageFormat.html[MessageFormat] class. Messages that contain a single quote will now need escaping in order for the quote to output as it did previously. For example:

[source,properties]
----
my.message=We love Micronaut's documentation
----

Would now be output as `We love Micronauts documentation`. To achieve the desired result, escape the single quote with another single quote.

[source,properties]
----
my.message=We love Micronaut''s documentation
----

NOTE: This change also applies to messages in custom constraint annotations, which interpolate the message via the message source api.
