src/main/docs/guide/httpServer/reactiveServer/reactiveResponses.adoc, before:

The previous section introduced the notion of Reactive programming using RxJava 2.x and Micronaut.

Micronaut supports returning common reactive types such as rx:Single[] or rx:Observable[] (or the `Mono` type from Reactor 3.x), an instance of rs:Publisher[] or jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[] from any controller method.

The argument that is designated the body of the request using the api:http.annotation.Body[] annotation can also be a reactive type or a jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[].

Micronaut also uses these types to influence which thread pool to execute the method on. If the request is considered non-blocking (because it returns a non-blocking type) then the Netty event loop thread will be used to execute the method.

If the method is considered blocking then the method is executed on the I/O thread pool, which Micronaut creates at startup.

TIP: See the section on <<threadPools, Configuring Thread Pools>> for information on the thread pools that Micronaut sets up and how to configure them.

To summarize, the following table illustrates some common response types and their handling:


.Micronaut Response Types
|===
|Type|Description|Example Signature

|rs:Publisher[]
|Any type that implements the rs:Publisher[] interface
|`Flowable<String> hello()`

|jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[]
|A Java `CompletableFuture` instance
|`CompletableFuture<String> hello()`

|api:http.HttpResponse[]
|An api:http.HttpResponse[] and optional response body
|`HttpResponse<Flowable<String>> hello()`

|jdk:java.lang.CharSequence[]
|Any implementation of `CharSequence`
|`String hello()`

|T
|Any simple POJO type
|`Book show()`
|===

NOTE: When returning a Reactive type, the type of reactive type has an impact on the response returned. For example, when returning a rx:Flowable[], Micronaut can not know the size of the response, so `Transfer-Encoding` type of `Chunked` is used. Whilst for types that emit a single result such as `rx:Single[]` the `Content-Length` header will be populated.

Commit message:

Default to manual thread selection for Micronaut 2.0 & clarify docs. Fixes #2215 (#2830)
* Use thread-selection=manual for Micronaut 2.0. Fixes  #2215

* Fix tests

* Throw exception if no executor is configured for given name

* Fix Writable handling

* Rollback explicit stream check and update tests

src/main/docs/guide/httpServer/reactiveServer/reactiveResponses.adoc, after:

The previous section introduced the notion of Reactive programming using RxJava 2.x and Micronaut.

Micronaut supports returning common reactive types such as rx:Single[] or rx:Observable[] (or the `Mono` type from Reactor 3.x), an instance of rs:Publisher[] or jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[] from any controller method.

The argument that is designated the body of the request using the api:http.annotation.Body[] annotation can also be a reactive type or a jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[].

When returning a reactive type Micronaut will subscribe to the returned reactive type on the same thread as the request (A Netty Event Loop thread). It is therefore important that if you perform any blocking operations you offload those operations to an appropriately configured thread pool for example, using RxJava's `subscribeOn(..)` facility or ann:scheduling.annotation.ScheduleOn[].

TIP: See the section on <<threadPools, Configuring Thread Pools>> for information on the thread pools that Micronaut sets up and how to configure them.

To summarize, the following table illustrates some common response types and their handling:


.Micronaut Response Types
|===
|Type|Description|Example Signature

|rs:Publisher[]
|Any type that implements the rs:Publisher[] interface
|`Flowable<String> hello()`

|jdk:java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture[]
|A Java `CompletableFuture` instance
|`CompletableFuture<String> hello()`

|api:http.HttpResponse[]
|An api:http.HttpResponse[] and optional response body
|`HttpResponse<Flowable<String>> hello()`

|jdk:java.lang.CharSequence[]
|Any implementation of `CharSequence`
|`String hello()`

|T
|Any simple POJO type
|`Book show()`
|===

NOTE: When returning a Reactive type, the type of reactive type has an impact on the response returned. For example, when returning a rx:Flowable[], Micronaut can not know the size of the response, so `Transfer-Encoding` type of `Chunked` is used. Whilst for types that emit a single result such as `rx:Single[]` the `Content-Length` header will be populated.
