src/main/docs/guide/languageSupport/kotlin/coroutines.adoc, before:

Kotlin coroutines allow you to create asynchronous applications with imperative style code. A Micronaut's controller
action can be a `suspend` function:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspend", indent=0, title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> The function is marked as `suspend`, though in reality it won't be suspended.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendDelayed", indent=0, title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> The function is marked as `suspend`.
<2> The `delay` is called to make sure that a function is suspended and the response is returned from a different thread.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendStatus", indent=0, title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> `suspend` function also works when all we want is to return a status.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendStatusDelayed", indent=0, title="Controller suspend function example"]

NOTE: Due to the way Kotlin compiler generates bytecode for coroutines they are currently https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/366[unsuppoprted] out-of-the-box in GraalVM. There is, however, a https://github.com/HewlettPackard/kraal[workaround] for this problem.

Commit message:

Document how to use an HTTP client with coroutines

src/main/docs/guide/languageSupport/kotlin/coroutines.adoc, after:

Kotlin coroutines allow you to create asynchronous applications with imperative style code. A Micronaut's controller
action can be a `suspend` function:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspend", indent="0", title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> The function is marked as `suspend`, though in reality it won't be suspended.

NOTE: Functions declared in controllers that use `suspend` must be `open` as well.

The following is an example that uses `delay`:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendDelayed", indent="0", title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> The function is marked as `suspend`.
<2> The `delay` is called to make sure that a function is suspended and the response is returned from a different thread.

Functions that don't return anything (the `Unit` type in Kotlin) can also be suspended:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendStatus", indent="0", title="Controller suspend function example"]

<1> `suspend` function also works when all we want is to return a status.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendStatusDelayed", indent=0, title="Controller suspend function example"]

You can then declare Micronaut HTTP clients that use a reactive type such as RxJava's rx:Single[]:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SimpleClient[tags="suspendClient", indent="0", title="HTTP Client Example"]

To use the client from a suspended function you can use the `await` method:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.server.suspend.SuspendController[tags="suspendClient", indent="0", title="Suspend and await example"]

NOTE: Due to the way Kotlin compiler generates bytecode for coroutines they are currently https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/366[unsuppoprted] out-of-the-box in GraalVM. There is, however, a https://github.com/HewlettPackard/kraal[workaround] for this problem.
