src/main/docs/guide/cloud/cloudConfiguration.adoc, before:

Applications that are built for the Cloud often need adapt to running in a Cloud environment, read and share configuration in a distributed manner and externalize configuration to the environment where necessary.

Micronaut's <<environments, Environment>> concept is by default Cloud platform aware and will make a best effort to detect the underlying active environment.

You can then use the api:context.annotation.Requires[] annotation to <<conditionalBeans,conditionally load bean definitions>>.

The following table summarizes the constants provided by the api:context.env.Environment[] interface and provides an example:

.Micronaut Environment Detection
|===
|Constant|Description |Requires Example |Environment name

|api:context.env.Environment#ANDROID[]
|The application is running as an Android application
|`@Requires(env = Environment.ANDROID)`
|`android`

|api:context.env.Environment#TEST[]
|The application is running within a JUnit or Spock test
|`@Requires(env = Environment.TEST)`
|`test`

|api:context.env.Environment#CLOUD[]
|The application is running in a Cloud environment (present for all other cloud platform types)
|`@Requires(env = Environment.CLOUD)`
|`cloud`

|api:context.env.Environment#AMAZON_EC2[]
|Running on https://aws.amazon.com/ec2[Amazon EC2]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.AMAZON_EC2)`
|`ec2`

|api:context.env.Environment#GOOGLE_COMPUTE[]
|Running on https://cloud.google.com/compute/[Google Compute]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.GOOGLE_COMPUTE)`
|`gcp`

|api:context.env.Environment#KUBERNETES[]
|Running on https://www.kubernetes.io[Kubernetes]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.KUBERNETES)`
|`k8s`

|api:context.env.Environment#HEROKU[]
|Running on https://heroku.com[Heroku]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.HEROKU)`
|`heroku`

|api:context.env.Environment#CLOUD_FOUNDRY[]
|Running on https://www.cloudfoundry.org[Cloud Foundry]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.CLOUD_FOUNDRY)`
|`pcf`

|api:context.env.Environment#AZURE[]
|Running on https://azure.microsoft.com[Microsoft Azure]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.AZURE)`
|`azure`

|api:context.env.Environment#IBM[]
|Running on https://www.ibm.com/cloud/[IBM Cloud]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.IBM)`
|`ibm`

|api:context.env.Environment#DIGITAL_OCEAN[]
|Running on https://www.digitalocean.com/[Digital Ocean]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.DIGITAL_OCEAN)`
|`digitalocean`

|api:context.env.Environment#ORACLE_CLOUD[]
|Running on https://cloud.oracle.com/[Oracle Cloud]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.ORACLE_CLOUD)`
|`oraclecloud`

|===

Note that it may be the case that you have multiple active environment names since you may run Kubernetes on AWS for example.

In addition, using the value of the constants defined in the table above you can create environment specific configuration files. For example if you create a `src/main/resources/application-gcp.yml` file then that configuration will only be loaded when running on Google Compute.

TIP: Any configuration property in the api:context.env.Environment[] can also be set via an environment variable. For example, setting the `CONSUL_CLIENT_HOST` environment variable will override the `host` property in api:discovery.consul.ConsulConfiguration[].


== Using Cloud Instance Metadata


When Micronaut detects it is running on any of the cloud platforms listed above, such as Google Compute or AWS EC2, upon startup Micronaut will populate the interface api:discovery.cloud.ComputeInstanceMetadata[].

TIP: Depending on the environment you are running in the backing implementation will be either api:io.micronaut.discovery.cloud.gcp.GoogleComputeInstanceMetadata[], api:io.micronaut.discovery.cloud.aws.AmazonEC2InstanceMetadata[],  api:io.micronaut.discovery.cloud.digitalocean.DigitalOceanInstanceMetadata[] or api:io.micronaut.discovery.cloud.oraclecloud.OracleCloudInstanceMetadata[] with metadata found from the cloud provider metadata services.

All of this data is merged together into the `metadata` property for the running api:discovery.ServiceInstance[].

If you need to access the metadata for your application instance you can use the interface api:runtime.server.EmbeddedServerInstance[], and call `getMetadata()` which will get a map of all of the metadata.

If you are connecting remotely via client, the instance metadata can be referenced once you have retrieved a api:io.micronaut.discovery.ServiceInstance[] from either the api:http.client.LoadBalancer[] or api:discovery.DiscoveryClient[] APIs.

NOTE: The Netflix Ribbon client side load balancer can be configured to use the metadata to do zone aware client side load balancing. See <<clientSideLoadBalancing,Client Side Load Balancing>>

To obtain metadata for a service via <<serviceDiscovery,Service Discovery>> use the api:http.client.LoadBalancerResolver[] interface to resolve a api:http.client.LoadBalancer[] and obtain a reference to a service by identifier:

.Obtaining Metadata for a Service instance
[source,java]
----
LoadBalancer loadBalancer = loadBalancerResolver.resolve("some-service");
Flowable.fromPublisher(
    loadBalancer.select()
).subscribe((instance) ->
    ConvertibleValues<String> metaData = instance.getMetadata();
    ...
);
----

The api:runtime.server.EmbeddedServerInstance[] is available through event listeners that listen for the api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]. The ann:runtime.event.annotation.EventListener[] annotation makes it easy to listen for the event inside one of your existing beans.

To obtain metadata for the locally running server use an <<events,EventListener>> for the api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]:

.Obtaining Metadata for a Local Server
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
void onServiceStarted(ServiceReadyEvent event) {
    ServiceInstance serviceInstance = event.getSource()
    ConvertibleValues<String> metadata = serviceInstance.metadata
}
----

Commit message:

Remove AWS compute metadata migrated to AWS module and update docs

src/main/docs/guide/cloud/cloudConfiguration.adoc, after:

Applications that are built for the Cloud often need adapt to running in a Cloud environment, read and share configuration in a distributed manner and externalize configuration to the environment where necessary.

Micronaut's <<environments, Environment>> concept is by default Cloud platform aware and will make a best effort to detect the underlying active environment.

You can then use the api:context.annotation.Requires[] annotation to <<conditionalBeans,conditionally load bean definitions>>.

The following table summarizes the constants provided by the api:context.env.Environment[] interface and provides an example:

.Micronaut Environment Detection
|===
|Constant|Description |Requires Example |Environment name

|api:context.env.Environment#ANDROID[]
|The application is running as an Android application
|`@Requires(env = Environment.ANDROID)`
|`android`

|api:context.env.Environment#TEST[]
|The application is running within a JUnit or Spock test
|`@Requires(env = Environment.TEST)`
|`test`

|api:context.env.Environment#CLOUD[]
|The application is running in a Cloud environment (present for all other cloud platform types)
|`@Requires(env = Environment.CLOUD)`
|`cloud`

|api:context.env.Environment#AMAZON_EC2[]
|Running on https://aws.amazon.com/ec2[Amazon EC2]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.AMAZON_EC2)`
|`ec2`

|api:context.env.Environment#GOOGLE_COMPUTE[]
|Running on https://cloud.google.com/compute/[Google Compute]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.GOOGLE_COMPUTE)`
|`gcp`

|api:context.env.Environment#KUBERNETES[]
|Running on https://www.kubernetes.io[Kubernetes]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.KUBERNETES)`
|`k8s`

|api:context.env.Environment#HEROKU[]
|Running on https://heroku.com[Heroku]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.HEROKU)`
|`heroku`

|api:context.env.Environment#CLOUD_FOUNDRY[]
|Running on https://www.cloudfoundry.org[Cloud Foundry]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.CLOUD_FOUNDRY)`
|`pcf`

|api:context.env.Environment#AZURE[]
|Running on https://azure.microsoft.com[Microsoft Azure]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.AZURE)`
|`azure`

|api:context.env.Environment#IBM[]
|Running on https://www.ibm.com/cloud/[IBM Cloud]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.IBM)`
|`ibm`

|api:context.env.Environment#DIGITAL_OCEAN[]
|Running on https://www.digitalocean.com/[Digital Ocean]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.DIGITAL_OCEAN)`
|`digitalocean`

|api:context.env.Environment#ORACLE_CLOUD[]
|Running on https://cloud.oracle.com/[Oracle Cloud]
|`@Requires(env = Environment.ORACLE_CLOUD)`
|`oraclecloud`

|===

Note that it may be the case that you have multiple active environment names since you may run Kubernetes on AWS for example.

In addition, using the value of the constants defined in the table above you can create environment specific configuration files. For example if you create a `src/main/resources/application-gcp.yml` file then that configuration will only be loaded when running on Google Compute.

TIP: Any configuration property in the api:context.env.Environment[] can also be set via an environment variable. For example, setting the `CONSUL_CLIENT_HOST` environment variable will override the `host` property in api:discovery.consul.ConsulConfiguration[].


== Using Cloud Instance Metadata


When Micronaut detects it is running on any of the cloud platforms listed above, such as Google Compute or AWS EC2, upon startup Micronaut will populate the interface api:discovery.cloud.ComputeInstanceMetadata[].

TIP: As of Micronaut 2.1.x this logic depends on the presence of the appropriate core Cloud module for Oracle Cloud, AWS or GCP.

All of this data is merged together into the `metadata` property for the running api:discovery.ServiceInstance[].

If you need to access the metadata for your application instance you can use the interface api:runtime.server.EmbeddedServerInstance[], and call `getMetadata()` which will get a map of all of the metadata.

If you are connecting remotely via client, the instance metadata can be referenced once you have retrieved a api:io.micronaut.discovery.ServiceInstance[] from either the api:http.client.LoadBalancer[] or api:discovery.DiscoveryClient[] APIs.

NOTE: The Netflix Ribbon client side load balancer can be configured to use the metadata to do zone aware client side load balancing. See <<clientSideLoadBalancing,Client Side Load Balancing>>

To obtain metadata for a service via <<serviceDiscovery,Service Discovery>> use the api:http.client.LoadBalancerResolver[] interface to resolve a api:http.client.LoadBalancer[] and obtain a reference to a service by identifier:

.Obtaining Metadata for a Service instance
[source,java]
----
LoadBalancer loadBalancer = loadBalancerResolver.resolve("some-service");
Flowable.fromPublisher(
    loadBalancer.select()
).subscribe((instance) ->
    ConvertibleValues<String> metaData = instance.getMetadata();
    ...
);
----

The api:runtime.server.EmbeddedServerInstance[] is available through event listeners that listen for the api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]. The ann:runtime.event.annotation.EventListener[] annotation makes it easy to listen for the event inside one of your existing beans.

To obtain metadata for the locally running server use an <<events,EventListener>> for the api:discovery.event.ServiceReadyEvent[]:

.Obtaining Metadata for a Local Server
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
void onServiceStarted(ServiceReadyEvent event) {
    ServiceInstance serviceInstance = event.getSource()
    ConvertibleValues<String> metadata = serviceInstance.metadata
}
----
