src/main/docs/guide/httpClient/clientFilter.adoc, before:

Often, you need to include the same HTTP headers or URL parameters in a set of requests against a third-party API or when calling another Microservice.

To simplify this, Micronaut includes the ability to define api:http.filter.HttpClientFilter[] classes that are applied to all matching HTTP clients.

As an example say you want to build a client to communicate with the https://bintray.com/docs/api/[Bintray REST API]. It would be terribly tedious to have to specify authentication for every single HTTP call.

To resolve this burden you can define a filter. The following is an example `BintrayService`:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.ThirdPartyClientFilterSpec[tags="bintrayApiConstants, bintrayService", indent=0]

<1> An api:http.client.RxHttpClient[] is injected for the Bintray API
<2> The organization is configurable via configuration

The Bintray API is secured. To authenticate you need to add an `Authorization` header for every request. You could modify `fetchRepositories` and `fetchPackages` methods to include the necessary HTTP Header for each request. Using a filter is much simpler though:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.ThirdPartyClientFilterSpec[tags="bintrayFilter", indent=0]

<1> You can match only a subset of paths with a Client filter.
<2> The `username` and `token` are injected via configuration
<3> The `basicAuth` method is used include the HTTP BASIC credentials

Now, whenever you invoke the `bintrayService.fetchRepositories()` method, the `Authorization` HTTP header is included in the request.

=== Filter Matching By Annotation

For cases where a filter should be applied to a client, regardless of the URL, filters can be matched by the presence of an annotation applied to both the filter and the client. Given the following client:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuthClient[tags="class"]

<1> The `@BasicAuth` annotation is applied to the client

The following filter will filter the client requests:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuthClientFilter[tags="class"]

<1> The same annotation, `@BasicAuth`, is applied to the filter
<2> Normally the `@Filter` annotation makes filters singletons by default. Because the `@Filter` annotation is not used, the desired scope must be applied

The `@BasicAuth` annotation is just an example and can be replaced with your own custom annotation.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuth[tags="class"]

<1> The only requirement for custom annotations is that the ann:http.annotation.HttpFilterStereotype[] annotation must be present

Commit message:

Document the need to use Provider to inject clients. Fixes 3239

src/main/docs/guide/httpClient/clientFilter.adoc, after:

Often, you need to include the same HTTP headers or URL parameters in a set of requests against a third-party API or when calling another Microservice.

To simplify this, Micronaut includes the ability to define api:http.filter.HttpClientFilter[] classes that are applied to all matching HTTP client requests.

As an example say you want to build a client to communicate with the https://bintray.com/docs/api/[Bintray REST API]. It would be terribly tedious to have to specify authentication for every single HTTP call.

To resolve this burden you can define a filter. The following is an example `BintrayService`:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.ThirdPartyClientFilterSpec[tags="bintrayApiConstants, bintrayService", indent=0]

<1> An api:http.client.RxHttpClient[] is injected for the Bintray API
<2> The organization is configurable via configuration

The Bintray API is secured. To authenticate you need to add an `Authorization` header for every request. You could modify `fetchRepositories` and `fetchPackages` methods to include the necessary HTTP Header for each request. Using a filter is much simpler though:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.ThirdPartyClientFilterSpec[tags="bintrayFilter", indent=0]

<1> You can match only a subset of paths with a Client filter.
<2> The `username` and `token` are injected via configuration
<3> The `basicAuth` method is used include the HTTP BASIC credentials

Now, whenever you invoke the `bintrayService.fetchRepositories()` method, the `Authorization` HTTP header is included in the request.

=== Injecting Another Client into a HttpClientFilter

It should be noted that in order to create a api:http.client.RxHttpClient[] Micronaut needs to resolve all of the `HttpClientFilter` instances which creates a circular dependency in the case where you need to inject another api:http.client.RxHttpClient[] or a `@Client` bean into an instance of a `HttpClientFilter`.

To resolve this issue you should use the `javax.inject.Provider` interface to inject another api:http.client.RxHttpClient[] or a `@Client` bean into an instance of `HttpClientFilter`.

The following example which implements a filter that allows https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service[authentication between services on Google Cloud Run] demonstrates how to use `Provider` to inject another client:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.GoogleAuthFilter[tags="class"]

<1> The `javax.inject.Provider` interface is used to inject another client, avoiding a circular reference
<2> The `get()` method of the `Provider` interface is used to obtain the client instance.

=== Filter Matching By Annotation

For cases where a filter should be applied to a client, regardless of the URL, filters can be matched by the presence of an annotation applied to both the filter and the client. Given the following client:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuthClient[tags="class"]

<1> The `@BasicAuth` annotation is applied to the client

The following filter will filter the client requests:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuthClientFilter[tags="class"]

<1> The same annotation, `@BasicAuth`, is applied to the filter
<2> Normally the `@Filter` annotation makes filters singletons by default. Because the `@Filter` annotation is not used, the desired scope must be applied

The `@BasicAuth` annotation is just an example and can be replaced with your own custom annotation.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.client.filter.BasicAuth[tags="class"]

<1> The only requirement for custom annotations is that the ann:http.annotation.HttpFilterStereotype[] annotation must be present
