src/main/docs/guide/ioc/beans.adoc, before:

Micronaut implements the http://javax-inject.github.io/javax-inject/[JSR-330 (javax.inject) - Dependency Injection for Java] specification hence to use Micronaut you simply use the link:{jeeapi}/javax/inject/package-summary.html[annotations provided by javax.inject].

The following is a simple example:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.Engine,io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.V8Engine,io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.Vehicle[tags="class",indent=0]

<1> A common `Engine` interface is defined
<2> A `V8Engine` implementation is defined and marked with `Singleton` scope
<3> The `Engine` is injected via constructor injection

To perform dependency injection simply run the  link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/BeanContext.html[BeanContext] using the `run()` method and lookup a bean using `getBean(Class)`, as per the following example:


snippet::io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.VehicleSpec[tags="start",indent="0"]

Micronaut will automatically discover dependency injection metadata on the classpath and wire the beans together according to injection points you define.

Micronaut supports the following types of dependency injection:

* Constructor injection (must be one public constructor or a single contructor annotated with `@Inject`)
* Field injection
* JavaBean property injection
* Method parameter injection

Commit message:

Document what a bean is. Closes #3103

src/main/docs/guide/ioc/beans.adoc, after:

A bean is an object that has it's lifecycle controlled by the Micronaut IoC container. That lifecycle may include creation, execution, and destruction. Micronaut implements the http://javax-inject.github.io/javax-inject/[JSR-330 (javax.inject) - Dependency Injection for Java] specification hence to use Micronaut you simply use the link:{jeeapi}/javax/inject/package-summary.html[annotations provided by javax.inject].

The following is a simple example:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.Engine,io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.V8Engine,io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.Vehicle[tags="class",indent=0]

<1> A common `Engine` interface is defined
<2> A `V8Engine` implementation is defined and marked with `Singleton` scope
<3> The `Engine` is injected via constructor injection

To perform dependency injection simply run the  link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/BeanContext.html[BeanContext] using the `run()` method and lookup a bean using `getBean(Class)`, as per the following example:


snippet::io.micronaut.docs.inject.intro.VehicleSpec[tags="start",indent="0"]

Micronaut will automatically discover dependency injection metadata on the classpath and wire the beans together according to injection points you define.

Micronaut supports the following types of dependency injection:

* Constructor injection (must be one public constructor or a single contructor annotated with `@Inject`)
* Field injection
* JavaBean property injection
* Method parameter injection
