src/main/docs/guide/ioc/contextEvents.adoc, before:

Micronaut supports a general event system through the context. The api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] API is used to publish events and the api:context.event.ApplicationEventListener[] API is used to listen to events. The event system is not limited to the events that Micronaut publishes and can be used for custom events created by the users.

=== Publishing Events

The api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] API supports events of any type, however all events that Micronaut publishes extend api:context.event.ApplicationEvent[].

To publish an event, obtain an instance of api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] either directly from the context or through dependency injection, and execute the `publishEvent` method with your event object.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.SampleEvent,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.SampleEventEmitterBean[tags="class",indent=0,title="Publishing an Event]

WARNING: Publishing an event is *synchronous* by default! The `publishEvent` method will not return until all listeners have been executed. Move this work off to a thread pool if it is time intensive.


=== Listening for Events

To listen to an event, register a bean that implements api:context.event.ApplicationEventListener[] where the generic type is the type of event the listener should be executed for.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.application.SampleEventListener,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.application.SampleEventListenerSpec[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Listening for Events with `ApplicationEventListener`"]

NOTE: The link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/event/ApplicationEventListener.html#supports-E-[supports] method can be overridden to further clarify events that should be processed.

Alternatively you can use the ann:runtime.event.annotation.EventListener[] annotation if you do not wish to specifically implement an interface:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.listener.SampleEventListener[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Listening for Events with `@EventListener`"]

If your listener performs work that could take a while then you can use the ann:scheduling.annotation.Async[] annotation to run the operation on a separate thread:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.async.SampleEventListener,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.async.SampleEventListenerSpec[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Asynchronously listening for Events with `@EventListener`"]

The event listener will by default run on the `scheduled` executor. You can configure this thread pool as required in `application.yml`:


//TODO: Move YAML snippet to ExecutorServiceConfigSpec
.Configuring Scheduled Task Thread Pool
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    executors:
        scheduled:
            type: scheduled
            core-pool-size: 30
----

Commit message:

Fixes #2831 document startup and shutdown events

src/main/docs/guide/ioc/contextEvents.adoc, after:

Micronaut supports a general event system through the context. The api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] API is used to publish events and the api:context.event.ApplicationEventListener[] API is used to listen to events. The event system is not limited to the events that Micronaut publishes and can be used for custom events created by the users.

=== Publishing Events

The api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] API supports events of any type, however all events that Micronaut publishes extend api:context.event.ApplicationEvent[].

To publish an event, obtain an instance of api:context.event.ApplicationEventPublisher[] either directly from the context or through dependency injection, and execute the `publishEvent` method with your event object.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.SampleEvent,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.SampleEventEmitterBean[tags="class",indent=0,title="Publishing an Event]

WARNING: Publishing an event is *synchronous* by default! The `publishEvent` method will not return until all listeners have been executed. Move this work off to a thread pool if it is time intensive.


=== Listening for Events

To listen to an event, register a bean that implements api:context.event.ApplicationEventListener[] where the generic type is the type of event the listener should be executed for.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.application.SampleEventListener,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.application.SampleEventListenerSpec[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Listening for Events with `ApplicationEventListener`"]

NOTE: The link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/event/ApplicationEventListener.html#supports-E-[supports] method can be overridden to further clarify events that should be processed.

Alternatively you can use the ann:runtime.event.annotation.EventListener[] annotation if you do not wish to specifically implement an interface or utilize one of the built in events like api:context.event.StartupEvent[] and api:context.event.ShutdownEvent[]:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.listener.SampleEventListener[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Listening for Events with `@EventListener`"]

If your listener performs work that could take a while then you can use the ann:scheduling.annotation.Async[] annotation to run the operation on a separate thread:

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.events.async.SampleEventListener,io.micronaut.docs.context.events.async.SampleEventListenerSpec[tags="imports,class",indent=0,title="Asynchronously listening for Events with `@EventListener`"]

The event listener will by default run on the `scheduled` executor. You can configure this thread pool as required in `application.yml`:


//TODO: Move YAML snippet to ExecutorServiceConfigSpec
.Configuring Scheduled Task Thread Pool
[source,yaml]
----
micronaut:
    executors:
        scheduled:
            type: scheduled
            core-pool-size: 30
----
