src/main/docs/guide/management/providedEndpoints/loggersEndpoint.adoc, before:


The loggers endpoint returns information about the available loggers in the application and
permits configuring the their log level.

To get a collection of all loggers by name with their configured and effective log levels,
send a GET request to /loggers. This will also provide a list of the available log levels.

[source,bash]
----
$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers

{
    "levels": [
        "ALL", "TRACE", "DEBUG", "INFO", "WARN", "ERROR", "OFF", "NOT_SPECIFIED"
    ],
    "loggers": {
        "ROOT": {
            "configuredLevel": "INFO",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        "io": {
            "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        "io.micronaut": {
            "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        // etc...
    }
}
----

To get the log levels of a particular logger, include the logger name in your GET request. For
example, to access the log levels of the logger 'io.micronaut.http':

[source,bash]
----
$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers/io.micronaut.http

{
    "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
    "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
}
----

If the named logger does not exist, it will be created with an unspecified (i.e. `NOT_SPECIFIED`)
configured log level. (It's effective log level will usually be that of the root logger.)

To update the log level of a single logger, send a POST request to the named logger URL and include
a body providing the log level to configure.


[source,bash]
----
$ curl -i -X POST
       -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
       -d '{ "configuredLevel": "ERROR" }' \
       http://localhost:8080/loggers/ROOT

HTTP/1.1 200 OK

$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers/ROOT

{
    "configuredLevel": "ERROR",
    "effectiveLevel": "ERROR"
}

----


== Configuration

To configure the loggers endpoint, supply configuration through `endpoints.loggers`.

.Loggers Endpoint Configuration Example
[source,yaml]
----
endpoints:
    loggers:
        enabled: Boolean
        sensitive: Boolean
----

== Customization

The loggers endpoint is composed of two customizable parts: a loggers manager and a logging system.

The loggers manager
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggersManager.html[LoggersManager])
is responsible for returning a Publisher that will return data collected and transformed for the response,
and it is also responsible for updating a logger with a new log level.

To override the default behavior for the loggers manager, either extend the default implementation
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/impl/DefaultLoggersManager.html[DefaultLoggersManager])
or implement the link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggersManager.html[LoggersManager]
interface directly. To ensure your implementation is used instead of the default, add the
link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/annotation/Replaces.html[@Replaces] annotation to your class with the
value being the default implementation.

The logging system
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggingSystem.html[LoggingSystem])
is responsible for processing requests from the loggers manager against a particular logging
library (e.g. logback, log4j, etc.)

The current default implementation for the logging system is
link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/impl/LogbackLoggingSystem.html[LogbackLoggingSystem],
which works with the https://logback.qos.ch/[logback] logging framework. Additional logging systems will
be implemented in future revisions of Micronaut. For custom logging system behavior, implement
the link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggingSystem.html[LoggingSystem] interface directly.
To ensure your implementation is used instead of the default, add the
link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/annotation/Replaces.html[@Replaces] annotation to your class with the
value being the default implementation.

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@Replaces(LogbackLoggingSystem.class)
public class CustomLoggingSystem implements LoggingSystem {
    // ...
}
----

Commit message:

Disable loggers endpoint by default. Rename LoggingSystem. Fixes #3144

src/main/docs/guide/management/providedEndpoints/loggersEndpoint.adoc, after:


The loggers endpoint returns information about the available loggers in the application and
permits configuring the their log level.

NOTE: The loggers endpoint is disabled by default and needs to be explicitly enabled with the setting `endpoints.loggers.enabled=true`.

To get a collection of all loggers by name with their configured and effective log levels,
send a GET request to /loggers. This will also provide a list of the available log levels.

[source,bash]
----
$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers

{
    "levels": [
        "ALL", "TRACE", "DEBUG", "INFO", "WARN", "ERROR", "OFF", "NOT_SPECIFIED"
    ],
    "loggers": {
        "ROOT": {
            "configuredLevel": "INFO",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        "io": {
            "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        "io.micronaut": {
            "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
            "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
        },
        // etc...
    }
}
----

To get the log levels of a particular logger, include the logger name in your GET request. For
example, to access the log levels of the logger 'io.micronaut.http':

[source,bash]
----
$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers/io.micronaut.http

{
    "configuredLevel": "NOT_SPECIFIED",
    "effectiveLevel": "INFO"
}
----

If the named logger does not exist, it will be created with an unspecified (i.e. `NOT_SPECIFIED`)
configured log level. (It's effective log level will usually be that of the root logger.)

To update the log level of a single logger, send a POST request to the named logger URL and include
a body providing the log level to configure.


[source,bash]
----
$ curl -i -X POST
       -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
       -d '{ "configuredLevel": "ERROR" }' \
       http://localhost:8080/loggers/ROOT

HTTP/1.1 200 OK

$ curl http://localhost:8080/loggers/ROOT

{
    "configuredLevel": "ERROR",
    "effectiveLevel": "ERROR"
}

----


== Configuration

To configure the loggers endpoint, supply configuration through `endpoints.loggers`.

.Loggers Endpoint Configuration Example
[source,yaml]
----
endpoints:
    loggers:
        enabled: Boolean
        sensitive: Boolean
----

== Customization

The loggers endpoint is composed of two customizable parts: a loggers manager and a logging system.

The loggers manager
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggersManager.html[LoggersManager])
is responsible for returning a Publisher that will return data collected and transformed for the response,
and it is also responsible for updating a logger with a new log level.

To override the default behavior for the loggers manager, either extend the default implementation
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/impl/DefaultLoggersManager.html[DefaultLoggersManager])
or implement the link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggersManager.html[LoggersManager]
interface directly. To ensure your implementation is used instead of the default, add the
link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/annotation/Replaces.html[@Replaces] annotation to your class with the
value being the default implementation.

The logging system
(link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggingSystem.html[LoggingSystem])
is responsible for processing requests from the loggers manager against a particular logging
library (e.g. logback, log4j, etc.)

The current default implementation for the logging system is
link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/impl/LogbackLoggingSystem.html[LogbackLoggingSystem],
which works with the https://logback.qos.ch/[logback] logging framework. Additional logging systems will
be implemented in future revisions of Micronaut. For custom logging system behavior, implement
the link:{api}/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/loggers/LoggingSystem.html[LoggingSystem] interface directly.
To ensure your implementation is used instead of the default, add the
link:{api}/io/micronaut/context/annotation/Replaces.html[@Replaces] annotation to your class with the
value being the default implementation.

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@Replaces(LogbackLoggingSystem.class)
public class CustomLoggingSystem implements LoggingSystem {
    // ...
}
----
