src/main/docs/guide/config/environments.adoc, before:

The application environment is modelled by the api:context.env.Environment[] interface, which allows specifying one or many unique environment names when creating an api:context.ApplicationContext[].

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.env.EnvironmentSpec[tags="env",indent=0,title="Initializing the Environment"]

The active environment names serve the purpose of allowing loading different configuration files depending on the environment and also using the ann:.context.annotation.Requires[] annotation to conditionally load beans or bean ann:.context.annotation.Configuration[] packages.

In addition, Micronaut will attempt to detect the current environments. For example within a Spock or JUnit test the api:context.env.Environment#TEST[] environment will be automatically active.

Additional active environments can be specified using the `micronaut.environments` system property or the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable. These can be specified as a comma separated list. For example:

.Specifying environments
[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dmicronaut.environments=foo,bar -jar myapp.jar
----

The above activates environments called `foo` and `bar`.

Finally, the Cloud environment names are also detected. See the section on <<cloudConfiguration,Cloud Configuration>> for more information.

== Environment Priority

Micronaut will load property sources based off the environments specified, and if the same property key exists in multiple property sources specific to an environment, the environment order determines which value will be used.

Micronaut uses the following hierarchy for environment processing (lowest priority to highest priority):

* Deduced environments
* Environments from the `micronaut.environments` system property
* Environments from the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable
* Environments specified explicitly through the application context builder
+
NOTE: This also applies to `@MicronautTest(environments = )`
+


== Disabling Environment Detection

The automatic detection of environments can be disabled setting the `micronaut.env.deduction` system property or the `MICRONAUT_ENV_DEDUCTION` environment variable to `false`. This will prevent Micronaut from detecting current environments, while still using any environments that are specifically provided as shown above.

.Disabling environment detection via system property
[source,bash]
----
$  java -Dmicronaut.env.deduction=false -jar myapp.jar
----

Alternatively, you can disable environment deduction using the api:context.ApplicationContextBuilder[]'s `deduceEnvironment` method when setting up your application.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.env.DefaultEnvironmentSpec[tags="disableEnvDeduction",indent=0,title="Using ApplicationContextBuilder to disable environment deduction"]

== Default Environment

Micronaut supports the concept of one or many default environments. A default environment is one that is only applied if no other environments are explicitly specified. Environments can be explicitly specified either through the application context builder `Micronaut.build().environments(...)`, through the `micronaut.environments` system property, or the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable. If an environment is configured through any of the above means, the default environment will *not* be applied.

To set the default environments, modify your application main method:

[source,java]
----
public static void main(String[] args) {
    Micronaut.build(args)
            .mainClass(Application.class)
            .defaultEnvironments("dev")
            .start();
}
----

Commit message:

Don't apply the default environment if one is deduced (#4275)
* Don't apply the default environment if one is deduced

* Update tests

src/main/docs/guide/config/environments.adoc, after:

The application environment is modelled by the api:context.env.Environment[] interface, which allows specifying one or many unique environment names when creating an api:context.ApplicationContext[].

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.env.EnvironmentSpec[tags="env",indent=0,title="Initializing the Environment"]

The active environment names serve the purpose of allowing loading different configuration files depending on the environment and also using the ann:.context.annotation.Requires[] annotation to conditionally load beans or bean ann:.context.annotation.Configuration[] packages.

In addition, Micronaut will attempt to detect the current environments. For example within a Spock or JUnit test the api:context.env.Environment#TEST[] environment will be automatically active.

Additional active environments can be specified using the `micronaut.environments` system property or the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable. These can be specified as a comma separated list. For example:

.Specifying environments
[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dmicronaut.environments=foo,bar -jar myapp.jar
----

The above activates environments called `foo` and `bar`.

Finally, the Cloud environment names are also detected. See the section on <<cloudConfiguration,Cloud Configuration>> for more information.

== Environment Priority

Micronaut will load property sources based off the environments specified, and if the same property key exists in multiple property sources specific to an environment, the environment order determines which value will be used.

Micronaut uses the following hierarchy for environment processing (lowest priority to highest priority):

* Deduced environments
* Environments from the `micronaut.environments` system property
* Environments from the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable
* Environments specified explicitly through the application context builder
+
NOTE: This also applies to `@MicronautTest(environments = )`
+


== Disabling Environment Detection

The automatic detection of environments can be disabled setting the `micronaut.env.deduction` system property or the `MICRONAUT_ENV_DEDUCTION` environment variable to `false`. This will prevent Micronaut from detecting current environments, while still using any environments that are specifically provided as shown above.

.Disabling environment detection via system property
[source,bash]
----
$  java -Dmicronaut.env.deduction=false -jar myapp.jar
----

Alternatively, you can disable environment deduction using the api:context.ApplicationContextBuilder[]'s `deduceEnvironment` method when setting up your application.

snippet::io.micronaut.docs.context.env.DefaultEnvironmentSpec[tags="disableEnvDeduction",indent=0,title="Using ApplicationContextBuilder to disable environment deduction"]

== Default Environment

Micronaut supports the concept of one or many default environments. A default environment is one that is only applied if no other environments are explicitly specified or deduced. Environments can be explicitly specified either through the application context builder `Micronaut.build().environments(...)`, through the `micronaut.environments` system property, or the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable. Environments can be deduced to automatically apply the environment appropriate for cloud deployments. If an environment is found through any of the above means, the default environment will *not* be applied.

To set the default environments, modify your application main method:

[source,java]
----
public static void main(String[] args) {
    Micronaut.build(args)
            .mainClass(Application.class)
            .defaultEnvironments("dev")
            .start();
}
----
