src/main/docs/guide/httpClient/clientAnnotation/clientParameters.adoc, before:

The previous example presented a trivial example that uses the parameters of a method to represent the body of a `POST` request:

.PetOperations.java
[source,java]
----
include::{testsclient}/annotation/PetOperations.java[tags=save, indent=0]
----

////
NOTE: for some weird reason every time I try to replace this with a snippet it creates the following error

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
Execution failed for task ':publishGuide'.
> org.jruby.exceptions.RaiseException: (TypeError) cannot convert instance of class org.jruby.RubyObject to interface org.asciidoctor.ast.DocumentRuby

I found a closed issue on github that sounds similar https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues/267 but not really certain
////

The `save` method when called will perform an HTTP `POST` with the following JSON by default:

.Example Produced JSON
[source,json]
----
{"name":"Dino", "age":10}
----

You may however want to customize what is sent as the body, the parameters, URI variables and so on. The ann:http.client.annotation.Client[] annotation is very flexible in this regard and supports the same pkg:http.annotation[HTTP Annotations] as Micronaut's HTTP server.

For example, the following defines a URI template and the `name` parameter is used as part of the URI template, whilst ann:http.annotation.Body[] is used declare that the contents to send to the server are represented by the `Pet` POJO:

.PetOperations.java
[source,java]
----
@Post("/{name}")
Single<Pet> save(
    @NotBlank String name, // <1>
    @Body @Valid Pet pet) // <2>
----

<1> The name parameter, included as part of the URI, and declared `@NotBlank`
<2> The `pet` parameter, used to encode the body and declared `@Valid`

The following table summarizes the parameter annotations, their purpose, and provides an example:

.Parameter Binding Annotations
|===
|Annotation|Description |Example

|ann:http.annotation.Body[]
|Allows to specify the parameter that is the body of the request
|`@Body String body`

|ann:http.annotation.CookieValue[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be sent as cookies
|`@CookieValue String myCookie`

|ann:http.annotation.Header[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be sent as HTTP headers
|`@Header String contentType`

|ann:http.annotation.QueryValue[]
|Allows customizing the name of the URI parameter to bind from
|`@QueryValue("userAge") Integer age`

|ann:http.annotation.PathVariable[]
|Used to bind a parameter exclusively from a <<routing, Path Variable>>.
|`@PathVariable Long id`

|ann:http.annotation.RequestAttribute[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be set as request attributes
|`@RequestAttribute Integer locationId`

|===

==== Type Based Binding Parameters

Some parameters are recognized by their type instead of their annotation. The following table summarizes the parameter types, their purpose, and provides an example:

|===
|Type |Description |Example

|api:http.BasicAuth[]
|Allows binding of basic authorization credentials
|`BasicAuth basicAuth`

|===

Commit message:

Explain how to use query string parameters
Document how to bind query string parameters, including optional parameters using @QueryValue and @Nullable.

src/main/docs/guide/httpClient/clientAnnotation/clientParameters.adoc, after:

The previous example presented a trivial example that uses the parameters of a method to represent the body of a `POST` request:

.PetOperations.java
[source,java]
----
include::{testsclient}/annotation/PetOperations.java[tags=save, indent=0]
----

////
NOTE: for some weird reason every time I try to replace this with a snippet it creates the following error

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
Execution failed for task ':publishGuide'.
> org.jruby.exceptions.RaiseException: (TypeError) cannot convert instance of class org.jruby.RubyObject to interface org.asciidoctor.ast.DocumentRuby

I found a closed issue on github that sounds similar https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues/267 but not really certain
////

The `save` method when called will perform an HTTP `POST` with the following JSON by default:

.Example Produced JSON
[source,json]
----
{"name":"Dino", "age":10}
----

You may however want to customize what is sent as the body, the parameters, URI variables and so on. The ann:http.client.annotation.Client[] annotation is very flexible in this regard and supports the same pkg:http.annotation[HTTP Annotations] as Micronaut's HTTP server.

For example, the following defines a URI template and the `name` parameter is used as part of the URI template, whilst ann:http.annotation.Body[] is used declare that the contents to send to the server are represented by the `Pet` POJO:

.PetOperations.java
[source,java]
----
@Post("/{name}")
Single<Pet> save(
    @NotBlank String name, // <1>
    @Body @Valid Pet pet) // <2>
----

<1> The name parameter, included as part of the URI, and declared `@NotBlank`
<2> The `pet` parameter, used to encode the body and declared `@Valid`

Parameters can also be bound from the query string. You can either use the route template, or specify the ann:http.annotation.QueryValue[] annotation:

.PetOperations.java
[source,java]
----
@Get("/find?name={name}")
Single<List<T>> find(@NotBlank String name, // <1>
    @QueryValue @Nullable String vendorName) // <2>
----

<1> The name parameter, included in the route template, and declared `@NotBlank`
<2> The `vendorName` parameter, marked as `@Nullable`, and not included in the route template

The following table summarizes the parameter annotations, their purpose, and provides an example:

.Parameter Binding Annotations
|===
|Annotation|Description |Example

|ann:http.annotation.Body[]
|Allows to specify the parameter that is the body of the request
|`@Body String body`

|ann:http.annotation.CookieValue[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be sent as cookies
|`@CookieValue String myCookie`

|ann:http.annotation.Header[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be sent as HTTP headers
|`@Header String contentType`

|ann:http.annotation.QueryValue[]
|Used to bind a parameter from the URI or customize the name of the parameter to bind from
|`@QueryValue("userAge") Integer age`

|ann:http.annotation.PathVariable[]
|Used to bind a parameter exclusively from a <<routing, Path Variable>>.
|`@PathVariable Long id`

|ann:http.annotation.RequestAttribute[]
|Allows specifying parameters that should be set as request attributes
|`@RequestAttribute Integer locationId`

|===


==== Type Based Binding Parameters

Some parameters are recognized by their type instead of their annotation. The following table summarizes the parameter types, their purpose, and provides an example:

|===
|Type |Description |Example

|api:http.BasicAuth[]
|Allows binding of basic authorization credentials
|`BasicAuth basicAuth`

|===
